---
title: Space Tourism
date: 2021-09-08T06:26:14.733Z
published: true
tags: []
cover_image: ../../static/images/uploads/img.jpg
description: "Space Tourism: Boon or Bane?"
---
There could not have been a better way to celebrate the 52nd anniversary of the first Moon landing than the series of space flights last July heralding a new era of space tourism. But there's a catch. The plans of so called “space tourism” companies merely involve flights into suborbital space: high enough up to technically cross the [100-kilometer line](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K%C3%A1rm%C3%A1n_line) considered the lower boundary of space and give fliers a few minutes of weightlessness, but not high enough to actually enter Earth's orbit like a satellite. The sad reality is that these flights, currently priced at $250,000 for an estimated six minutes of weightlessness, might not provide an experience tremendously different from what's currently available to anyone willing to [spend $5,000](http://www.gozerog.com/): a brief zero gravity flight on a plane. The hard truth is that we're closer to the era of space tourism than ever before — but if you're waiting for vacations in space, you'll probably be disappointed. The idea of space tourism has been bandied about, at least in science fiction, since the 1920s, In the 1960s, there was this perception that by the 21st century, space tourism — whether a stint aboard an orbiting hotel or a trip to the moon — would be as common as a flight from New York to Tokyo. \
\
The main reason that isn't the case is money. For decades, dreams of space tourism went nowhere, as space travel remained far too expensive and risky. Despite [assertions to the contrary](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/07/09/where-space-begins-bezos-blue-origin-vs-bransons-virgin-galactic.html), there is no legal definition of “outer space”, and thus no official boundary where airspace ends and outer space begins. Conveniently for the popular space tourism flights, 80km has been [proposed](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.07894) by some experts as an appropriate boundary. Outer space is undeniably influenced by Earthly geopolitics. How does tourism fit with the underlying philosophy of space law: that the exploration and use of outer space “shall be carried out for the benefit and in the interests of all countries”? \
\
Space tourism will inevitably put pressure on Earth’s environment – there are [claims](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2021/jul/19/billionaires-space-tourism-environment-emissions) that space vehicles may one day become the world’s biggest source of carbon dioxide emissions. If space tourism does become truly widespread, it will need infrastructure and perhaps even staff. People may end up living permanently in space settlements, perhaps having children who will be born as “space citizens”. What legal rights would someone have if they were born at a Moon base? Would they be subject to terrestrial laws, or some version of current international legal rules for outer space? Given these difficulties, what can we realistically expect for the future of space tourism? 

In all likelihood, Virgin, XCOR, Blue Origin, or another company will eventually achieve suborbital flights, offering wealthy flyers the chance to scrape the bottom edge of space for a few hundred thousand dollars. For many people, that raises an obvious question: Is it worth it? It's hard to say, since no tourists have taken this sort of flight yet.